I THINK
WE HAVE PEOPLE WAITING IN THE
AUDIENCE SO I THINK WE CAN CALL
THE MEETING TO ORDER PLEASE.
&gt;&gt; GOOD EVENING.
WELCOME TO THE AUGUST 11TH 20
22 ANN ARBOR HISTORIC DISTRICT
COMMISSION MEETING.
THANK YOU FOR YOUR PATIENCE IN
HELPING AND WAITING FOR US TO
WORK OUT THE ISSUES TONIGHT.
&gt;&gt; THIS MEETING IS BEING HELD
ELECTRONICALLY AND IN PERSON
VISU IN PERSON AND
ELECTRONICALLY BY VISITING
MEMBERS OF THE PUBLIC WHO WOULD
LIKE TO COMMENT ON HEARINGS OR
OTHER MATTERS MAY DO SO VIA
TELEPHONE ONLY TO SPEAK DURING
ANY OF THE PUBLIC COMMENT
OPPORTUNITIES PLEASE CALL EIGHT
EIGHT EIGHT SEVEN EIGHT EIGHT
ZERO ZERO NINE NINE OR TWO ONE
THREE THREE THREE EIGHT
EIGHT
FOUR SEVEN SEVEN AND
INTERMEETING NINETY NINE SEVEN
EIGHT SIX FOUR ZERO ONE FOUR
FIVE ONE FIVE.
THIS INFORMATION IS ALSO
AVAILABLE ON THE PUBLISHED
AGENDA IN THE PUBLIC NOTICES
SECTION OF THE CITY WEBSITE AND
ON THE BROADCAST OF THIS
MEETING ON TTN CHANNEL 16 AT&amp;T
CHANNEL NINETY NINE AND ONLINE
AT THAT AGE TO GOV. DOUG
FORWARD SLASH WATCH AND MR.
KOWALSKI WILL YOU PLEASE CALL
THE ROLL?
&gt;&gt; YES PRESENT PRESENT RACAN
HERE WHITE NOT PRESENT AT THE
MOMENT ROSS PRESIDENT FORTNER
HERE, WILLIS HERE AND HERE.
OK, THANK YOU MR. CHOMSKY.
ON ITEM C APPROVAL OF THE
AGENDA.
&gt;&gt; ARE THERE ANY ADDITIONS,
DELETIONS OR CHANGES TO
TONIGHT&apos;S AGENDA?
I DON&apos;T BELIEVE SO.
HEARING AND DENHA OBJECTION THE
AGENDA IS APPROVED AS PRESENTED
ONTO ITEM D PUBLIC COMMENT.
THIS IS A OPPORTUNITY FOR
PERSONS TO SPEAK FOR UP TO
THREE MINUTES ABOUT AN ISSUE
THAT IS NOT LISTED AS A PUBLIC
HEARING ON THIS AGENDA.
TO COMMENT ON SUCH OTHER
PRESERVATION MATTERS PLEASE
CALL EIGHT SEVEN SEVEN EIGHT
FIVE THREE FIVE TO FOUR SEVEN
AND ENTER MEETING NINETY NINE
SEVEN EIGHT SIX FOUR ZERO ONE
FOUR FIVE ONE FIVE AGAIN THIS
INFORMATION IS ALSO DISPLAYED
ON THE MEETING AGENDA AND VIDEO
FEED CITY STAFF WILL SELECT
CALLERS THAT HAVE RAISED THEIR
HAND ONE BY ONE USING THE LAST
THREE DIGITS OF YOUR PHONE
NUMBER IN ORDER TO
ELECTRONICALLY RAISE YOUR HAND
TO INDICATE YOUR DESIRE TO
SPEAK, PLEASE PRESS STAR NINE
ON YOUR PHONE.
DO WE HAVE ANY BUDDY INDICATING
FOR NOW THERE ARE NO HANDS
RAISED ONLINE AT THIS TIME?
&gt;&gt; OK, WE&apos;LL CLOSE A PUBLIC
HEARING THE PUBLIC COMMENT
PORTION AND MOVE ON TO ITEM IX
UNFINISHED BUSINESS.
THERE IS NO UNFINISHED BUSINESS
FOR TONIGHT AND ON TWO HEARINGS
ITEM F ONE ONE ZERO ONE SEVEN
WEST LIBERTY MR. KOWALSKI,
THANK YOU.
WE SHOULD HOPEFULLY MY POINT
GOES SMOOTHLY.
&gt;&gt; THERE WE GO.
OK, AND AGAIN I APOLOGIZE IF I
MAY DO THINGS A LITTLE BIT
TOUGH.
I&apos;M NOT SURE HOW MUCH OF THE
REPORT WOULD KIND OF WALK
THROUGH BUT WE HAVE OBVIOUSLY
HAVE THE PICTURES AT THIS TIME
AND THEN I&apos;LL KIND OF HIT THE
SUMMARY AS WE GO THROUGH IT.
&gt;&gt; OK, SO AGAIN ONE ZERO ONE
SEVEN WEST LIBERTY OLD WEST
SIDE HISTORIC DISTRICT I TOOK
SOME PICTURES OF THE SITE AGAIN
INDICATE THIS IS WHERE SOME
OF THE FIRST WORK THAT YOU GUYS
WILL BE LOOKING AT TONIGHT IS
REGARDING FILLING IN THIS AREA
BETWEEN THE DRIVEWAY AND THE
HOUSE DUE TO SOME WATER EROSION
ISSUES.
AGAIN, WE CAN HAVE SOME SEVERAL
CLOSE UP PICTURES.
YOU CAN SEE SOME OF THE
FOUNDATION FAILINGS.
THERE&apos;S ALSO ADDITIONAL
PICTURES IN YOUR PACKET OF SOME
OF THE INSIDE WALLS AS WELL AND
THE OTHER REQUESTS ON YOUR
AGENDA TONIGHT WITH THIS
PROPERTY IS REPLACEMENT OF THE
GARAGE DOORS, THESE GARAGE
DOORS OR WOULD THEY WERE NOT
ORIGINAL.
HOWEVER THEY WERE OLDER BUT AND
THEY ARE MADE OF WOOD SO THERE
IS SOME FAILING WITHIN THAT
RODDING PARTICULARLY AT THE
BASE DUE TO MOISTURE AND WATER.
&gt;&gt; SO WE ALSO HAVE SOME CLOSE
UPS OF THOSE INDICATING WHERE
IN THE DAMAGE AND THERE ON THE
TOP RIGHT THERE YOU CAN SEE OH
SORRY MY LOOKS LIKE THIS MAY BE
BLOCKING IT A LITTLE BIT.
&gt;&gt; IT DIDN&apos;T MOVE ON THE FEED
ON THE TOP RIGHT INDICATED IS
THE NEW THE GARAGE DOOR THAT
THEY WOULD BE PROPOSING TO
INSTALL IN PLACE THE WOODEN
ONES.
SO SOME OF THE SECRETARY
OF INTERIOR STANDARDS THAT DO
APPLY NO TO THE HISTORIC
CHARACTER OF THE PROPERTY WILL
BE RETAINED AND PRESERVED THE
REMOVAL OF DISTINCTIVE
MATERIALS OR ALTERATION
OF FEATURES, SPACES AND SPATIAL
RELATIONSHIPS THAT CHARACTERIZE
THE PROPERTY WILL BE AVOIDED.
NO.9 NEW ADDITIONS EXTERIOR
ALTERATIONS OR RELATED NEW
CONSTRUCTION SHALL NOT DESTROY
HISTORIC MATERIALS THAT
CHARACTERIZE THE PROPERTY.
THE NEW WORK SHALL BE
DIFFERENTIATE IT FROM THE OLD
AND SHALL BE COMPATIBLE WITH
THE MASSING SIZE SCALE AND
ARCHITECTURAL FEATURES TO
PROTECT THE HISTORIC INTEGRITY
OF THE PROPERTY AND ITS
ENVIRONMENT IN THE LAST ONE
ITEM TEN THE NEW ADDITIONS AND
ADJACENT OR RELATED NEW
CONSTRUCTION WILL BE UNDERTAKEN
IN SUCH A MANNER THAT IF
REMOVED IN THE FUTURE THE
ESSENTIAL FORM AND INTEGRITY
OF THE HISTORIC PROPERTY WILL
BE UNIMPAIRED ADDITIONAL THE
STANDARD THROUGH DISTRICT OR
NEIGHBORHOOD SETTING.
I WASN&apos;T SURE IF JILL ACTUALLY
READ THROUGH THESE AS WELL.
I CAN READ THROUGH AS WELL AS
THAT TYPICALLY SOMETIMES SOIL
UM I THINK THE HIGHLIGHTS I
KNOW AGAIN THAT THE MOST
IMPORTANT ONES REGARDING THE
FIRST GUIDELINES SO AGAIN SOME
OF THE THINGS THAT WERE NOT
RECOMMENDED I&apos;LL TOUCH ON THESE
ONES AS WELL INTRODUCE NEW
CONSTRUCTION IN HISTORIC
DISTRICTS THAT IS VISUALLY
INCOMPATIBLE OR THAT DESTROYS
HISTORIC RELATIONSHIPS WITHIN
THE SETTING AND HERE FOR
RESIDENTIAL ACCESSORY
STRUCTURES.
SO AGAIN THIS WOULD APPLY
OBVIOUSLY TO THE GARAGE IN THE
NEW GARAGE DOORS THAT THEY ARE
PROPOSING.
&gt;&gt; THERE&apos;S A COUPLE OF HERE
THAT THE APPROPRIATE FINDINGS
MAINTAINING AND RESTORING
HISTORIC BARNS, GARAGES, SHEDS,
TRELLISES AND OTHER ACCESSORIES
STRUCTURES TO MATCH THE
HISTORIC MATERIALS AND
CONFIGURATION.
&gt;&gt; THE SECOND ONE MAINTAINING
AND REPAIRING HISTORIC DOORS
AND WINDOWS ON HISTORIC BARNS
AND GARAGES TO MATCH THE
EXISTING MATERIALS AND
CONFIGURING WHERE ELEMENTS
OF HISTORIC HISTORIC
OUTBUILDINGS ARE DETERIORATED
BEYOND REPAIR, REPLACING THE
ELEMENTS IN KIND AND REPLACING
NON HISTORIC OR MISSING GARAGE
DOOR WITH A NEW DOOR IN KEEPING
WITH THE STYLE AND PERIOD
OF THE EXISTING GARAGE USING
THE HISTORIC OPENING SIZE NOT
APPROPRIATE REPLACING REPLACING
REPAIRABLE ORIGINAL HISTORIC
DOORS, GARAGE DOORS AND WINDOWS
AND FOR THE PAVED AREAS
APPROPRIATE ON RESIDENTIAL
PROPERTIES RETAINING AND
MAINTAINING EXISTING AND MY
LITTLE THINGS EXISTING HISTORIC
DRIVEWAYS AND CURB CUTS
INCLUDING TWO DRIVEWAYS AND
GREEN SPACE BETWEEN THE
DRIVEWAY AND THE HOUSE AND THAT
CONCLUDES THE PRESENTATION FOR
THIS PROPERTY.
THANK YOU COMMISSIONERS ROSS
AND MYSELF ARE ON THE REVIEW
COMMITTEE.
&gt;&gt; DID YOU WANT TO START
COMMISSIONER ROGER SHERMAN?
SURE.
THANK YOU.
SO YES, I JUST I GUESS START
OFF BY COMMENTING ON THE GARAGE
DOOR.
&gt;&gt; SO THE SO THE GARAGE ITSELF
ACCORDING TO THE STAFF REPORT
IS CONTRIBUTING AT HISTORIC AGE
.
IT SEEMS CLEAR THAT THE GARAGE
DOOR WAS NOT CONTEMPORANEOUS
WITH THE ORIGINAL CONSTRUCTION
DATA OF THE GARAGE.
&gt;&gt; SO IT SEEMED LIKE A MORE
RECENT GARAGE DOOR AND IN FACT
THERE WAS LIKE A STICKER FROM
THE LUMBER YARD OR WHOMEVER IT
IS THAT ACTUALLY MADE THE DOOR
SO THE DOOR RECENT ALTHOUGH
IT&apos;S WOOD AND SO WE ARE KIND
OF LOOKING AT IT OR I WAS KIND
OF LOOKING AT IT IS IS NOT A
DISTINCTIVE HISTORIC CHARACTER
DEFINING FEATURE OF THE ACTUAL
GARAGE.
SO OF COURSE THE NEW GARAGE
THAT&apos;S GARAGE DOOR THAT&apos;S
PROPOSED LOOKS VERY CLOSE VERY
CLOSELY MIRRORS THE EXISTING
DOOR.
SO YEAH.
SO THAT WAS KIND OF I GUESS YOU
KNOW, OUR OPINION AROUND THE
GROWTH STORY THAT IT WAS IT&apos;S
THAT HISTORIC AGE.
IT&apos;S NOT ORIGINAL AND OF RECENT
CONSTRUCTION AND IT DID APPEAR
TO BE IN POOR CONDITION.
&gt;&gt; UM, REGARDING THE STRIP
OF GREENERY THAT&apos;S DIRECTLY
ADJACENT TO THE HOUSE, ONE KIND
OF NICE THING IS IN BETWEEN SO
THE DRIVEWAY ASSOCIATED WITH
THE HOUSE AND THE HOUSE NEXT
DOOR THERE IS A NICE GREEN
STRIP OF OF LANDSCAPING THAT&apos;S
GOING TO BE MAINTAINED UM, THE
PROPERTY OWNER DID KIND OF WALK
US THROUGH THE ISSUES THAT HE&apos;S
FACING HAVING THAT GREEN STRIP
THERE.
&gt;&gt; IT&apos;S IT&apos;S REALLY A MINIMAL
AMOUNT OF GREENERY THAT&apos;S GOING
TO BE REMOVED.
&gt;&gt; I&apos;M GENERALLY SPEAKING THE
PROJECT APPEARED TO BE
APPROPRIATE TO ME.
YEAH, I AGREE WITH COMMISSIONER
ROSS&apos;S STATEMENT.
THEY JUST TO STAY ON THE
PLANTING STRIP THERE&apos;S THERE&apos;S
PAVING THAT THERE&apos;S A SIDEWALK
IMMEDIATELY ADJACENT TO THE
DRIVEWAY ITSELF THAT RUNS UP TO
THE FRONT FACE OF THE HOUSE AND
KIND OF STOPS RIGHT AT THE
CORNER AND THEN THAT&apos;S WHERE
THE HOUSE MAYBE TWO FOOT STRIP
OR SO LANDSCAPE STARTS AND IT&apos;S
IT&apos;S REALLY NARROW PAGE ELEVEN
AND OUR PACKARD HAS I THINK A
DECENT SCREENSHOT THAT SHOWS
THAT CENTER PLANTING STRIP UM
AND THEN SO I THINK HAVING THAT
FEATURE IS, YOU KNOW,
BENEFICIAL AND MAINTAINING AT
LEAST SOME GREEN SPACE IN
BETWEEN THE TWO DRIVEWAYS THE
ADJACENT PROPERTY DOES NOT HAVE
THE GREEN STRIP.
SO WHERE I THINK YOU KNOW, WE
WOULD NORMALLY WANT TO SEE THAT
LITTLE BIT OF GREENERY IN
BETWEEN THE HOUSE.
I THINK ALL THE ISSUES THAT
HAVE BEEN BROUGHT TO THE
ATTENTION ARE, YOU KNOW,
COMPLETELY APPROPRIATE FOR THE
CONSIDERATION OF DOING, UM,
CONCRETE AND MAINTAINING, YOU
KNOW, THE INTEGRITY OF THE
STRUCTURE.
&gt;&gt; UM, THE AFFRICATE DID
INDICATE THAT THE THE CONCRETE
WOULD GO THERE&apos;S A COUPLE
OF STONE SILLS UNDERNEATH THE
BASEMENT WINDOWS THAT HAVE ONE
OF THEM IN THE FRONT HAS SOME
CRACKS OR A CRACK IN THE MIDDLE
OF IT BUT THAT THE CONCRETE
WOULD GO UNDERNEATH SO THOSE
WOULD NOT BE OBSCURED AND THEN
THERE WOULD BE A BACK TO THE
THE EXISTING DRIVE AND
HOPEFULLY IN THE EXISTING
PAVEMENT THAT&apos;S IN THE FRONT
WOULD ALSO BE REWORKED BUT
THAT&apos;S EXISTING SO THERE&apos;S NO
ISSUE THERE.
&gt;&gt; UM, REGARDING THE GARAGE
DOORS, I COMPLETELY AGREE AGAIN
WITH COMMISSIONER ROS&apos;S
STATEMENTS AND IT&apos;S A MODERN
EDITION.
IT HAS A METAL TRACK.
IT&apos;S A NEW GARAGE DOOR
ESSENTIALLY.
SO THEY&apos;RE DEFINITELY NOT
ORIGINAL AND THERE&apos;S NO
EVIDENCE OF THE ORIGINAL.
&gt;&gt; SO I THINK WHAT IS PROPOSED
IS APPROPRIATE.
&gt;&gt; UM, WOULD THE APPLICANT
PLEASE
COME UP TO THE PODIUM,
STATE YOUR NAME AND ADDRESS FOR
THE RECORD
YOU&apos;LL HAVE UP TO
FIVE MINUTES TO SPEAK IF YOU
HAVE ANYTHING YOU&apos;D LIKE TO ADD
TO STAFF REPORTER ANY OF OUR
FINDINGS HERE IN ANN ARBOR, DO
YOU HAVE ANYTHING YOU&apos;D LIKE TO
END?
&gt;&gt; WELL, SO WE JUST RECENTLY
MOVED FROM WISCONSIN TO ANN
ARBOR SO THIS IS OUR FIRST TIME
GOING THROUGH A PROCESS LIKE
THIS AND I GUESS THE FIRST
THING I&apos;D LIKE TO DO IS THE
STAFF THEMSELVES ON THE FRONT
END WERE REALLY VERY HELPFUL IN
MAKING SURE THAT I KNEW WHAT TO
DO AND HOW TO DO AND I GOT SOME
GOOD FEEDBACK FROM THEM SO I
GENUINELY APPRECIATE THEIR
SUPPORT WITH THIS HOUSE.
WE KNEW WHEN WE PURCHASED THAT
THE PREVIOUS OWNER HAD NOT
LIVED FOR FOUR AND A HALF
YEARS, HAD DONE NOTHING TO
MAINTAIN IT AND UNFORTUNATELY
BECAUSE OF SOME HEALTH
CHALLENGES OF HER HUSBAND THE
TWO YEARS PRIOR TO THAT THE
SAME THING WAS OCCURRING.
SO WE&apos;RE FINDING THAT THE
DRAINAGE PROBLEMS ON THE EAST
SIDE OF THE HOUSE ARE FAIRLY
SIGNIFICANT.
THERE&apos;S SOME FAIRLY MAJOR
CRACKS BOTH VERTICAL AND
HORIZONTAL THAT ONCE WE CORRECT
THE DRAINAGE WE THEN HAVE TO
REPAIR THE FOUNDATION AND THEN
SOME OF THE PLASTER ON THE LAND
CEILINGS AND WALLS THAT HAVE
BEEN DAMAGED AS A RESULT
OF SETTLING.
BUT WE LIKE THE HOUSE A LOT.
WE HAVE A LOT OF PLANS FOR HOW
TO BRING IT BACK TO THE STATE.
IT WAS SOME YEARS AGO AND I
HOPE THAT THE COMMISSION WOULD
LOOK FAVORABLY ON OUR PROPOSAL
.
THANK YOU, COMMISSIONERS.
DO YOU HAVE ANY QUESTIONS FOR
THE APPLICANT?
&gt;&gt; OK, THANK YOU.
CAN I SEE RIGHT NOW LIKE TO
OPEN A PUBLIC HEARING FOR ITEM?
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
PERSONS TO SPEAK FOR UP TO
THREE MINUTES ABOUT THE
APPLICATION AT 10 17 WEST
LIBERTY.
&gt;&gt; PUBLIC COMMENT MAY BE MADE
BY AGAIN CALLING 877 EIGHT FIVE
THREE FIVE TO FOUR SEVEN AND
ENTERING NINETY NINE SEVEN
EIGHT SIX FOUR ZERO ONE FOUR
FIVE ONE FIVE.
&gt;&gt; PLEASE REMEMBER TO
ELECTRONICALLY RAISE YOUR HAND
OR PRESS STAR NINE ON YOUR
PHONE.
DO WE HAVE ANY CALLERS
INDICATING REPUBLICAN AND WE
HAVE NO CALLERS RAISING OUR
HAND ONLINE NOW CLOSED THE
PUBLIC HEARING PORTION IS THERE
COMMISSIONER THAT WOULD LIKE TO
MAKE A MOTION COMMISSIONER
YANNO I MOVE THAT THE
COMMISSION ISSUE A CERTIFICATE
OF APPROPRIATENESS FOR THE
APPLICATION AT TEN SEVENTEEN
WEST LIBERTY STREET, THE
CONTRIBUTING PROPERTY IN THE
OLD WEST SIDE HISTORIC DISTRICT
TO PAVE A STRIP BETWEEN THE
HOUSE AND THE DRIVEWAY AND
REPLACE THE WOOD OVERHEAD
GARAGE DOOR WITH STEEL OVERHEAD
DOOR AS PROPOSED THE PROPOSED
WORK IS COMPATIBLE AN EXTERIOR
DESIGN ARRANGEMENT, TEXTURE
MATERIAL AND RELATIONSHIP TO
THE SURROUNDING RESOURCES AND
THE ANN ARBOR HISTORIC DISTRICT
DESIGN GUIDELINES FOR
RESIDENTIAL ACCESSORY
STRUCTURES AND PAVED AREAS AND
THE SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR
STANDARDS FOR REHABILITATION
AND GUIDELINES FOR
REHABILITATING HISTORIC
BUILDINGS IN PARTICULAR
STANDARDS TO NINE AND TEN AND
THE GUIDELINES FOR DISTRICT
NEIGHBORHOOD AND BUILDING SITE
MOVED BY COMMISSIONER K.A. IS
YOUR SECOND SECONDED BY
COMMISSIONER ROCKLIN.
&gt;&gt; UH, IS THERE A DISCUSSION ON
THE MOTION, COMMISSIONER?
&gt;&gt; BECAUSE I FEEL LIKE MAYBE
THIS THIS APPLICATION DOESN&apos;T
DOESN&apos;T EXACTLY MEET ALL OF THE
APPROPRIATE STANDARDS BUT I
THINK IN BOTH CASES OF WHAT
THEY&apos;RE ASKING FOR, IT SEEMS
LIKE THERE&apos;S JUST MITIGATING
CIRCUMSTANCES PARTICULARLY TO
THIS PROJECT THAT KIND
OF SUPERSEDE THE ISSUE OF THE
STANDARDS AND IT SEEMS CLEAR
THAT THAT WHAT THEY&apos;RE ASKING
FOR SEEMS APPROPRIATE IN THAT
SENSE.
I MEAN I WOULD AGREE WITH THAT
AND KNOWING THAT BASED ON
OBSERVATIONS OF THE EXISTING
GARAGE DOORS ALTHOUGH THERE
WOULD WHICH WOULD BE I THINK
PROBABLY WHAT THE ORIGINAL ONE
FOR ME TO BE A SAFE ASSUMPTION
THEY&apos;RE NOT THE ORIGINAL SO
IT&apos;S A REPLACEMENT OF SIMILAR
COMPATIBLE STYLE WHICH I THINK
IS APPROPRIATE RIGHT ALONG THE
LINES OF THE GUIDELINES.
THANK YOU.
RIGHT.
WELL, IS EVERYONE READY FOR ALL
OF THOSE IN FAVOR OF THE
MOTION?
PLEASE?
YES, YES.
YES.
ALL THOSE OPPOSED PLEASE SAY NO
.
ALL RIGHT.
THE MOTION CARRIES YOUR
APPLICATION HAS BEEN APPROVED.
PLEASE NOTE THAT YOU MUST APPLY
FOR ANY REQUIRED PERMITS FROM
THE CITY BEFORE BEGINNING YOUR
PROJECT.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
YOU.
RIGHT NOW ON TO ITEM F TWO FOUR
THIRTY SIX S FOR STREET OK
THANK YOU FOR THIRTY SIX S
FIRST STREETS HERE FOR YOU
TONIGHT REQUESTING SOME FOR
PERMISSION TO ADD SOME I&apos;M
SORRY REPLACER GARAGING IN THE
REAR WITH AN ACCESSORY DWELLING
UNIT ABOVE THAT AS WELL AS AN
ADDITION ONTO THE REAR OF THE
STRUCTURE IT IS LOCATED IN THE
OLD WEST SIDE HISTORIC DISTRICT
FOR US THIS IS LOOKING DIRECTLY
OBVIOUSLY FROM THE SIDEWALK THE
PART OF THE BUILDING THAT WOULD
BE REMOVED IN THE ADDITION
EXTENDED YOU CAN SEE ON THE
BACK OF THE BUILDING THERE
RIGHT HERE THE THREE WINDOWS IS
WHAT WILL BE REMOVED.
&gt;&gt; THOSE WINDOWS ARE PROPOSED
TO BE SHIFTED OVER TO THE NEW
ADDITIONS AND THE PROPOSED
ADDITIONS WOULD GO DIRECTLY
ABOVE KIND OF WHERE YOU&apos;RE
LOOKING OVER AT THIS THE SECOND
FLOOR I GUESS THE PORCH IF YOU
WOULD SAY ABOVE THE FIRST LEVEL
HERE THE ADDITIONS WOULD COME
OUT FROM THE BACK OF THAT
STRUCTURE.
IT&apos;S INSET A LITTLE BIT FROM
THE SIDES AS WELL AS FROM THE
TOP.
&gt;&gt; THE OTHER ACTION THE
REQUESTING TONIGHT IS TO
REPLACE THE EXISTING GARAGE
THERE AND WITH A NEW GARAGE
OF COURSE, WHICH IS SLIGHTLY
SMALLER AS WELL WOULD HAVE AN
ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT ON TOP
OF THAT PART.
THE REASON THE GARAGE RIGHT NOW
IT DOES IT IS TAKES UP LARGER
THAN THE REQUIRED REAR OPEN
SPACE, THE PERCENTAGE
OF REQUIRED OPEN SPACE THAT IS
PERMITTED BY AN ACCESSORY
STRUCTURE.
SO THAT AND OBVIOUSLY THAT THE
GARAGE DATE&apos;S MUCH LATER THAN
THE HOUSE.
&gt;&gt; SO THAT WOULD BE PROPOSED
REMOVED AND OBVIOUSLY REPLACED
WITH A NEW STRUCTURE.
&gt;&gt; YOU CAN SEE THE SURVEY HERE
INDICATING WHERE THE NEW GARAGE
WOULD BE EXACTLY IN THE SAME
PLACE AS I SAID SLIGHTLY
SMALLER.
THE ADDITIONS INDICATED HERE
THE DARKER GRAY TO THE REAR
OF THE BUILDING AS WELL AS
ADDITIONAL PAVED AREA OR GRASSY
AREA BESIDE THAT AGAIN A SIDE
PROFILE OF THESE AS WELL.
&gt;&gt; THERE&apos;S ADDITIONAL WITHIN
YOUR PACKET&apos;S OF THE ELEVATIONS
HERE, BOTH SIDES SHOWING THAT
REAR ADDITION INSET AGAIN FROM
THE FRONT NO CHANGES VISIBLE
FROM THE FRONT THE REAR SORRY.
LET ME GO BACK THE REAR EDITION
THERE TO THE BOTTOM AS WELL AS
HERE WE&apos;VE GOT THE POST THE NEW
GARAGE.
SO AGAIN YOU CAN SEE TWO STOREY
GARAGE AT THIS POINT EXTERIOR
STAIRWAY WITH AN ACCESSORY
DWELLING UNIT ABOVE THAT OTHER
ELEVATIONS THE REAR IN THE EAST
OR WEST SIDE.
SECRETARY OF INTERIOR STANDARDS
NUMBER TWO AS WELL AS NUMBER
NINE FOR THE NEW ADDITIONS.
NUMBER TEN, THE NEW ADDITIONS
AND RELATED NEW CONSTRUCTION.
SOME OF THE GUIDELINES
REGARDING THE DISTRICT OR
NEIGHBORHOOD SETTING
ALTERATIONS AND ADDITIONS ARE
NOT RECOMMENDED ATTACHING A NEW
ADDITION SO THAT THE CHARACTER
DEFINING FEATURE OF THE
HISTORIC BUILDING ARE OBSCURED,
DAMAGED OR DESTROYED.
DESIGNING A NEW ADDITION SO
THAT ITS SIZE AND SCALE IN
RELATION TO THE HISTORIC
BUILDING ARE OUT OF PROPORTION
DIMINISHING THE HISTORIC
CHARACTER SO THE NOT
RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED
INTRODUCING NEW CONSTRUCTION
INTO HISTORIC DISTRICTS THAT IS
VISUALLY INCOMPATIBLE OR THAT
DESTROYS HISTORIC RELATIONSHIPS
WITHIN THE SETTING AND
REGARDING THE BUILDING SITE NOT
RECOMMENDED INTRODUCING NEW
CONSTRUCTION ONTO THE BUILDING
SITE WHICH IS VISUALLY
INCOMPATIBLE AND SIZE DESIGN
MATERIALS COLOR TEXTURE WHICH
DESTROYS HISTORIC HISTORIC
RELATIONSHIPS ON THE SITE ALSO
REMOVING OR RADICALLY CHANGING
BUILDINGS AND THEIR FEATURES OR
SITE FEATURES WHICH ARE
IMPORTANT IN DEFINING THE
OVERALL HISTORIC CHARACTER
OF THE BUILDING SITE SO THAT AS
A RESULT THE CHARACTER IS
DIMINISHED REGARDING THE
WINDOWS NOT RECOMMENDING
INTRODUCING A NEW DESIGN THAT
IS INCOMPATIBLE WITH THE
HISTORIC CHARACTER OF THE
BUILDING THE HISTORIC DISTRICT
GUIDELINES I WON&apos;T READ THROUGH
ALL OF THESE BUT YOU HAVE THESE
WITHIN YOUR PACKET AS WELL
REGARDING THE APPROPRIATE FOR
THE ADDITIONS AS WELL AS THE
NOT APPROPRIATE AND INCLUDING
FOR ALL EDITIONS AND THEN THE
HISTORIC THE ADDITIONS TO
RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURES WHICH IS
THE DIFFERENT SET OF STANDARDS
FOR THAT NEW ACCESSORY
STRUCTURES ALSO HAVE OUR
HISTORIC DISTRICT GUIDELINES
THAT PERTAIN SPECIFICALLY TO
THOSE REGARDING THE APPROPRIATE
WHAT WOULD BE APPROPRIATE
REGARDING IT AS ACCESSORY
STRUCTURES AND NOT APPROPRIATE
AND THAT WOULD INCLUDE THE
STAFF PRESENTATION AT THIS.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU MR KAWALSKY.
COMMISSIONER ROSS AND MYSELF
WERE THE REVIEW COMMITTEE.
UM I CAN GO AND START ON THIS
ONE.
I THINK THE ADDITION I THINK IS
PRETTY STRAIGHTFORWARD IN TERMS
OF THE SIZE AND SCALE IT IS AS
WAS STATED THE UM THERE IS THE
EXISTING FIRST FLOOR EDITION IN
THE REAR THAT&apos;S CURRENTLY USED
AS IS A MUDROOM SPACE WITH A
PORCH ON TOP FLAT ROOF.
THERE&apos;S ISSUES WITH WATER
DRAINAGE THE PROPOSED ADDITIONS
SO THAT WALL WOULD STAY IN THE
SAME PLANE BUT THE NEW
ADDITIONS WALLS WOULD BE INSET
ON BOTH LEVELS AND THEN ON THE
SECOND LEVEL DIRECTLY ABOVE IT
WOULD ALSO BE INSET SO THERE&apos;D
BE SLIGHT, YOU KNOW, ROOF
OVERHANG THAT WOULD HELP AT
LEAST DISTINGUISH THAT ORIGINAL
WALL IS IN PLACE.
&gt;&gt; UM, YOU WOULD SEE OF COURSE
THE ADDITION I THINK ON THE
DRIVEWAY SIDE SO WOULD BE
NOTICEABLE BUT I BELIEVE IT&apos;S
YOU KNOW, IT&apos;S APPROPRIATE IT&apos;S
IN THE REAR AS AN ADDITION UM
THE OPPOSITE SIDE OF THE HOUSE.
THAT&apos;S A PRETTY NARROW ALLEY IN
BETOOTA I GUESS GAZE TO THE
BACK BETWEEN THE TWO HOUSES AND
THERE&apos;S A LOT OF VEGETATION
THERE SO YOU REALLY WOULDN&apos;T
SEE IT FROM THE OPPOSITE SIDE
THE GARAGE SO THE THREE HOUSES
THAT ARE GOING THIS HOUSE AND
IN THE TWO HOUSES
NORTH ARE
PRETTY MUCH IDENTICAL SO THERE
ARE NO PRETTY MUCH THE SAME
THERE&apos;S AN ADDITION ON THE
HOUSE IMMEDIATELY TO THE NORTH
AND THEN THE GARAGE IN THE REAR
IS A LITTLE HIGHER THAN THE
ADJACENT.
THAT&apos;S CORRECT.
I THINK THE AND THIS MAY BE A
QUESTION FOR THE APPLICANT WHEN
WE GET TO IT BUT WE WERE
LOOKING AT THE HEIGHT OF THE
GARAGE IN COMPARISON TO THE
HOUSE WHICH I BELIEVE ARE TO
THE EDITION WHICH I BELIEVE IS
ONLY ABOUT FOUR INCHES OR SO
LESS BUT THE GRADE IS PRETTY
SLIGHT.
&gt;&gt; IT WAS HARD TO TELL HOW MUCH
MORE THAT GRADE CHANGES AT THE
GARAGE LEVEL THAN A HOUSE.
&gt;&gt; SO IT WILL BE TALLER I THINK
THAN THE ADJACENT GARAGE BUT
NOT BY A LOT.
&gt;&gt; SO THAT WAS REALLY I THINK
THE ONLY THING THAT I WAS JUST
KIND OF QUESTIONING AND WANTING
A LITTLE BIT MORE INFORMATION.
UM, OTHER THAN THAT I THINK
IT&apos;S PRETTY STRAIGHTFORWARD.
UM, I WOULD AGREE WITH
COMMISSIONER THAT I YEAH.
I FEEL LIKE SHE&apos;S KIND HIT THE
NAIL ON THE HEAD.
IT SEEMS LIKE A PRETTY
STRAIGHTFORWARD APPLICATION.
&gt;&gt; THE ADDITIONS SEEM TO BE IN
THE RIGHT SKILL FOR A PROPERTY
FROM THE BACK YOU&apos;LL STILL SEE
THE REAR EDITION IT WOULD STILL
BE OR THE REAR WING WILL STILL
BE DISTINGUISHABLE.
UM JUST THE WAY THE NEW EDITION
SETS BACK, JUST LOOKING AT THE
PROPERTIES AROUND OR DIRECTLY
ADJACENT THERE&apos;S LIKE THE NEW
APARTMENT BUILDING ON ONE SIDE
AND THEN THE TWO HOUSES RIGHT
NEXT I&apos;LL READMISSIONS UM SO
YEAH IT SEEMS TO BE A WELL
THOUGHT OUT PROJECT.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU FOR THAT.
PLEASE STEP FORWARD AND STATE
YOUR NAME AND ADDRESS FOR THE
RECORD AND YOU HAVE THE FIVE
MINUTES TO ADD ANYTHING ELSE
YOU&apos;D LIKE TO ADD.
&gt;&gt; MY NAME IS BRAD MORE.
I&apos;M THE ARCHITECT FOR THE
PROJECT AND WITH JAY BRADLEY
MOORE AND ASSOCIATES ARCHITECTS
I HAVE WITH ME TODAY IF YOU&apos;D
LIKE TO DONATE DETAILS ABOUT
THE HISTORY OF THE HOUSE I HAVE
THE KIDS WITH ME.
THEY ARE THE THIRD GENERATION
IN OWNERSHIP OF THIS HOUSE.
IT IS THE YOUNGEST GRANDPARENTS
THAT BUILT THE HOUSE.
SO IF YOU WANT TO KNOW ANY
DETAILS ABOUT HOW THE HOUSE
CAME TO BE WHAT IT&apos;S
CONSTRUCTED OF , THEY CERTAINLY
CAN ANSWER THAT QUESTION.
I JUST WANT TO SUPPORT THE
COMMENTS THAT THE COMMISSIONER
HAS MADE VISITED THE HOUSE.
WE&apos;VE DESIGNED IT TO ALL THE
STANDARDS.
YOU CAN TELL WHAT THE NEW
EDITION IS.
IT&apos;S DE MINIMIS.
IT DOESN&apos;T TOWER OVER OR
ECLIPSE THE EXISTING STRUCTURE
.
IN ANSWER TO YOUR QUESTION, I
DID SUBMIT AN ELEVATION
COMBINED WITH THE GARAGE AND
THE HOUSE AND THE THE ROOF LINE
OF THE EIGHTY YOU WOULD BE ONE
FOOT TWO INCHES LOWER THAN
ORIGINAL STRUCTURES RIDGELINE
WHICH MATCHES UP WITH NEW
ADDITIONS DESIGN.
SO BACK TO TO BUILDINGS WILL BE
BELOW THE RIDGE LINE OF THE
ORIGINALS AND THEY&apos;RE AT THE
SAME HEIGHT THAT THE EIGHTY
YES.
AND THE THE NEW ADDITIONS HAVE
THE SAME HEIGHT RIDGE LENGTH OK
AND THAT IS A FUNCTION THAT
ABOUT TWO STORIES IN HEIGHT AND
AND THE ARE PICTURES KNOW WE
WERE ENCOURAGED TO USE THE SAME
PICTURES AS MUCH AS POSSIBLE.
SO YOU&apos;RE GOING TO END UP WITH
VERY SIMILAR HEIGHTS BECAUSE
THE WIDTH OF THE HOUSE IS VERY
YOU KNOW WITHIN A COUPLE
OF INCHES THE SAME IS THE WIDTH
OF THE GARAGE.
THAT&apos;S WHY THEY LINE UP IT&apos;S
THE ZEMKE IS HOPE THAT THEY CAN
HELP RELIEVE AT THIS A LITTLE
BIT OF THE HOUSING SHORTAGE IN
THE TOWN BY CREATING ONE
OF THESE EIGHTY UNITS AND ALSO
ADDING A BEDROOM TO THE HOUSE
AND ALSO CREATING A FLEX ROOM
IN THE HOUSE BECAUSE DURING
COVID EVERYBODY FIGURED OUT
THAT HAVING THAT COLLECTION FOR
AN OFFICE OR A CONFERENCE ROOM
OR PLACE FOR YOUR KIDS TO
SCHOOL IS REALLY IMPORTANT.
SO THAT&apos;S ONE OF THE OTHER KEY
FACTORS IN THE DESIGN OF THE
NEW ADDITION.
&gt;&gt; IF YOU HAVE ANY QUESTIONS,
WE&apos;RE HERE TO ANSWER
COMMISSIONERS.
DO YOU HAVE ANY QUESTIONS FOR
THE
COMMISSIONER QUESTIONS ONE
IS JUST A CLARIFICATION ON THE
DRAWINGS ON THE PROPOSED NORTH
ELEVATION THERE&apos;S A DRAWING TAG
POINTING TO THE INFILL LOCATION
EIGHT TWO POINT ONE I THINK IT
IS OVER TO TWO POINT ONE.
YEAH, YOU GET SO AT THE END.
SO WHAT I ASSUME IS THEN FILL
IT&apos;S TAGGED AS A NEW LIGHT PIPE
BUT I DON&apos;T THINK THAT&apos;S YEAH
THAT&apos;S A THAT&apos;S A STRONG SIDING
REPLACEMENT IS IT CAMACHO&apos;S OR
YEAH WE WOULD WE WOULD MATCH SO
YEAH YEAH THERE&apos;LL BE CITING
THAT WE&apos;LL BE ABLE TO REMOVE
FROM THE REAR OF THE HOUSE AND
REPURPOSE TO THE SIDE OF THE
HOUSE OK FIVE YEARS AND SEE IF
YOU HAVE A BASEMENT ABOUT TEN
YEARS AGO.
&gt;&gt; MARVELOUS MARVELOUS
PRACTICAL GOOD NO GREAT.
&gt;&gt; UM AND THE BIT IS WOODEN
SIDING THE CEDAR SHAKES ON THE
TOP THEY ARE ORIGINAL THE IN MY
LIFETIME THE SHEETS HAVE NEVER
BEEN REPLACED AND I DON&apos;T I
CANNOT COMPREHEND HOW THEY
WOULD HAVE HAD TO HAVE BEEN
REPLACED IN THE FIRST THIRTY OR
SO YEARS OF THE STRUCTURED LIFE
.
SO AS FAR AS I KNOW THEY ARE
THEIR ORIGINAL OH NO THAT COULD
HAVE REPLACED IT FROM A PURELY
I CAN&apos;T SEE STRUCTURE WITH A
STATIC POINT OF VIEW AND THE
RIGHT THING TO DO BUT THEY ARE
ORIGINAL.
THE SIDING UNDERNEATH HAS A
VERY NARROW REVEAL TO IT THE
IT&apos;S ABOUT THREE INCHES OR SO
AND IT&apos;S A THAT&apos;S WHAT I WOULD
EXPECT TO MATCH.
CEDAR IS THE WAY TO GO.
YEAH.
AS FAR AS I&apos;M CONCERNED THAT
THE REASON FOR THE MUDROOM
THERE IF YOU TAKE A LOOK AT THE
PICTURE PAGE FIVE LOOKS THE
DRIVEWAY THE DRIVEWAY IS A
SHARED DRIVEWAY.
THE PROPERTY LINE RUNS RIGHT
DOWN THE MIDDLE OF THE DRY AND
THAT IF YOU LOOK REAL CLOSE
THERE YOU CAN SEE THE BRICKS ON
THE LEFT SIDE OF THE DRIVEWAY
BUT NOT ON THE RIGHT.
THOSE BRICKS ARE FROM MY
GRANDFATHER PUT THOSE IN AND HE
PUT THEM IN HIS HALF AND NOT
THE NEIGHBORS THEY COULD DO
THEIR OWN OK AND IF YOU LOOK
BACK THE GARAGE, THE ORIGINAL
GARAGE ALSO WAS RIGHT ON THE
PROPERTY LINE.
IT STRADDLE THE PROPERTY LINE
AND WAS A SHARED GARAGE.
FIFTY PERCENT OF THE NEIGHBORS
TO THE NORTH AND FIFTY PERCENT
FOR FOR MY GRANDPARENTS THE WAS
A ONE CAR GARAGE ON EACH SIDE.
OK THAT LEFT A MAXIMUM AMOUNT
OF BACKYARD FOR GARDEN AND THEY
HAD A GARDEN THEIR WHOLE TIME
THAT THEY LIVED THERE AND THE
REASON FOR THE MUD ROOM WAS HE
WAS A FARMER FOREIGN POWER MALE
DOMINATED ACRE FARM AND HE
COULD GET VERY, VERY DIRTY AND
HE WAS VERY CONSCIOUS OF THAT
PROBABLY NOT AS CONSCIOUS AS MY
GRANDMOTHER WAS BUT HE WAS VERY
CONSCIOUS AND AND SO HE PUT A
BATHROOM IN THERE RIGHT OFF THE
MUDROOM BECAUSE THE ONLY OTHER
BATHROOM WAS ALL THE WAY
UPSTAIRS AT THE END OF THE HALL
AND HE WAS WORKING IN THE
GARDEN, HAD TO USE THE BATHROOM
THEN HE&apos;D HAVE TO GO ALL THE
WAY THROUGH THE HOUSE UP THE
STAIRS AND TRACK ALL ABOUT ALL
THE WAY UP THERE AT I HE WOULD
NOT TOLERATE IT AND HE DID NOT
WANT IT.
AND SO THAT&apos;S WHY THE BATHROOM
JUST INSIDE OK, THE BEDROOM IS
EXACTLY THAT.
IN ADDITION TO IT IT HELPS TO
HAVE A POLICY BUILT INTO RIGHT
UNDERNEATH THE WINDOWS IN
QUESTION ON THE INSIDE THERE IS
A CABINET AND THE END OF THE
CABINET HAS WINDOWS GREEN AND
THAT&apos;S WHAT MY GRANDMOTHER USED
TO CALL EVERYTHING HAS A
PURPOSE IN THE HOUSE THE
WINDOWS TO MY KNOWLEDGE HE
PROBABLY BOUGHT THE SASHES HE
MIGHT HAVE MADE.
I DON&apos;T KNOW BUT HE PROBABLY
BOUGHT THE SASHES MY IF I HAD
TO GUESS I WOULD SAY THE THREE
THAT ARE BEING RELOCATED ON THE
BOTTOM AND THE TOP OK AND IT&apos;S
JUST THAT PROVIDED GOOD
VENTILATION AND STILL KEPT THE
COUNTER SPACE AVAILABLE.
OK IT&apos;S STILL CURVED GLASS BUT
THAT WE WANTED TO MOVE THEM SO
THEY&apos;D BE BY THE DOOR WHICH IS
THAT THE WAY THE HOUSE IS NOW
WITH THAT YOU HAVE A LOT
OF LIGHT WHEN YOU COME IN IT
JUST MAKES IT VERY, VERY NICE
AND IT KEEPS THE CHARACTER
OF THE HOUSE AS HE MADE IT.
&gt;&gt; IT JUST KEEPS IT IT MOVES IT
RIGHT DOWN SO THE WINDOWS ARE
SHIFTED APPROXIMATELY TEN FEET
TO THE WEST FROM WINDOWS INTO
THE NEW BEDROOM.
LOOKS LIKE AN OLD DESIGN OF THE
OF THE BEDROOM.
I&apos;M SORRY, DID YOU HAVE ONE
MORE QUESTION?
&gt;&gt; WELL, IT ACTUALLY WAS
RELATED TO THESE WINDOWS THAT
WE&apos;RE TALKING ABOUT SO WORKED
OUT WELL.
&gt;&gt; YEAH, IT&apos;S A VERY PRACTICAL
THING NOW IF WE ARE I JUST
WONDERING ON THE CONDITION
OF THE WINDOWS.
&gt;&gt; YEAH, I THINK THEY&apos;RE IN
GOOD SHAPE BECAUSE YOU&apos;RE THERE
ARE YOU USED TO REPAIR THEM?
I MEAN I&apos;M NOT TALKING ABOUT ON
THE GLASS WHERE THERE WAS A
BREAK IN THE GLASS AND HE WOULD
CUT OUT A PORTION AND SPLICE
ANOTHER PIECE OF GLASS IN
THERE.
&gt;&gt; I KNOW TWO PLACES THAT
THAT&apos;S NOT THERE FOR OVER 50
YEARS SINCE I&apos;VE KNOWN WE WERE
FIFTY YEARS MARRIED THIS YEAR.
SO CONGRATULATIONS.
SO OBVIOUSLY THEY HAVE A
GREAT
DEAL OF AFFECTION FOR THE HOUSE
SO I&apos;LL BE VERY CAREFUL AND
EXCITING THEM AND MOVING BUT
KEEP THEM AS PART OF THE HOUSE
IN THE RELATIONSHIP THAT
THEY&apos;VE ALWAYS HAD IN THE MUD
ROOM AND WE WERE ENTRY ABOUT AN
AFFAIR WHERE WE ARE HAVING TO
SHRINK THE GARAGE, THE EXISTING
GROUND THE EXISTING GARAGE WAS
BUILT NINETEEN SIXTY FOUR AND
THAT ONE WAS MOVED ON TO OUR
LOT WITH THE NECESSARY STEP
BACK IN THE SIDE PROPERTY LINE
AT THE TIME AT A LOT OF THAT
GARDEN SPACE NOW WE ARE GOING
TO RECLAIM A GIVEN AMOUNT
OF THAT GARDEN SPACE WHATEVER
IT TURNS OUT TO BE BUT I HAVE
GOT GRADUATE STUDENTS IN THERE
NOW.
YEAH, THEY&apos;RE TRYING THEIR HAND
GARDENING.
A LOT OF US ARE THINKING THAT
WE HAVE A VERY PRACTICAL
APPLICATION MODULE THERE.
AGAIN, THE QUESTIONS FROM OK,
UM I&apos;LL NOW OPEN THE PUBLIC
HEARING PORTION FOR THIS ITEM.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
PERSONS TO SPEAK FOR UP TO
THREE MINUTES ABOUT THE
APPLICATION AT FOUR THIRTY SIX
S FIRST STREET WE HAVE ANY AND
THERE IS NOBODY ON LINE WITH
THEIR HENRY THANK YOU.
ALL RIGHT.
NOW CLOSE THE PUBLIC HEARING
PORTION.
IS THERE A COMMISSIONER THAT
WOULD LIKE TO MAKE A MOTION?
COMMISSIONER ROSS BEAT YOU TO
IT, COMMISSIONER, I&apos;M I KNEW
THAT THE COMMISSION ISSUED A
CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS
FOR THE APPLICATION AT FOUR
THREE SIX S VERSTRAETE A
CONTRIBUTING PROPERTY IN THE
OLD WEST SIDE HISTORIC DISTRICT
TO CONSTRUCT A RARE ADDITION ON
TOP OF AND BEHIND THE EXISTING
REAR WING AND TO REPLACE THE
MODERN GARAGE WITH THE NEW TWO
STOREY GARAGE PROPOSED THE
PROPOSED WORK IS COMPATIBLE AN
EXTERIOR DESIGN ARRANGEMENT,
TEXTURE MATERIAL AND
RELATIONSHIP TO THE SURROUNDING
RESOURCES.
MRS ANN ARBOR HISTORIC DISTRICT
DESIGN GUIDELINES FOR ADDITIONS
AND NEW CONSTRUCTION AND THE
SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR
STANDARDS FOR REHABILITATION
AND GUIDELINES FOR
REHABILITATING HISTORIC
BUILDINGS IN PARTICULAR
STANDARDS TO NINE TEN IN THE
GUIDELINES FOR DISTRICT
NEIGHBORHOOD BUILDING SITE NEW
ADDITIONS AND WINDOWS SECONDED
BY COMMISSIONER ROSS SECONDED
BY COMMISSIONER ROCHLIN UT ANY
DISCUSSION ON THE MOTION LIKE I
SAID I THINK THE WORK IS PRETTY
STRAIGHTFORWARD AND I KNOW THE
APPLICANTS ARE VERY PASSIONATE
ABOUT THE HOUSE AND THE HISTORY
WE HAD.
WE RECEIVED QUITE A BIT
OF INFORMATION IN THE PACKET
WHICH I THINK IS MUCH
APPRECIATED ABOUT THE, YOU
KNOW, HISTORIC LEGACY OF THE
HOUSE AND YOU KNOW, IT&apos;S NICE
TO HAVE THAT HISTORY KIND
OF PASSED ALONG SO THAT THAT&apos;S
APPRECIATED AND I THINK THE
WORK IS MEETS THE GUIDELINES
.
THERE&apos;S NO OTHER COMMENT.
ARE WE READY FOR VOTE OR
COMMISSIONER, DID YOU HAVE
SOMETHING?
&gt;&gt; I WAS JUST TRYING TO FIND
SOMETHING HERE BUT I DON&apos;T WANT
TO HOLD YOUR FIRE.
I KNOW THAT I JUST WANT TO DO X
BUT I DO HAVE SOME CONCERNS
ABOUT RELOCATE WHAT SOUNDS LIKE
ORIGINAL WINDOWS FROM THAT
LOCATION.
BUT UNDERSTANDING THAT IN
RELOCATING THEM THEY&apos;RE
ESSENTIALLY MOVING TO THE NEW
MUDROOM AND MAINTAINING THAT
THEIR ORIGINAL RELATIONSHIP AND
FUNCTION.
SO IN A WAY AGAIN IT&apos;S KIND
OF YOU KNOW, A LITTLE BIT
OF GRAY AREA BUT MAINTAINING
THEIR THEIR PURPOSE, THEIR
ORIGINAL PURPOSE SO.
MM.
YEAH I THINK THAT&apos;S THAT&apos;S A
VALID CONCERN.
&gt;&gt; I HAD A SIMILAR I THINK
HESITATION I THINK HEARING THE
THE AND SEEING THE NEW USE I
THINK MAKES A LOT OF SENSE.
&gt;&gt; UM MY ONLY THOUGHTS WERE
THERE SOMETHING THAT COULD YOU
KNOW INDICATE THE PREVIOUS
LOCATION BUT IT&apos;LL YOU KNOW IT
WILL I THINK BE EVIDENT IN
FRAMING YOU KNOW AT SOME POINT
AND IT WILL BE REPLACED WITH
SIDING TO MATCH.
&gt;&gt; SO I THINK IT&apos;S I&apos;M CURIOUS
ABOUT THE DRAW.
YEAH, RIGHT.
SOUNDS GOOD.
YEAH.
BUT THAT&apos;S ALL OK.
WE ARE READY FOR A VOTE.
&gt;&gt; ALL OF THOSE IN FAVOR PLEASE
SAY YES.
YES OF THOSE OPPOSED PLEASE SAY
NO.
RIGHT THE MOTION CARRIES YOUR
APPLICATION HAS BEEN APPROVED.
PLEASE NOTE THAT YOU MUST APPLY
FOR ANY REQUIRED PERMITS FROM
THE CITY BEFORE BEGINNING YOUR
PROJECT.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
THANKS FOR YOUR PATIENCE
TONIGHT.
&gt;&gt; ALL RIGHT.
NOW ONTO ITEM F THREE THREE
THIRTY SIX S DIVISION.
&gt;&gt; OK, THIS PROPOSAL IS HERE
BEFORE YOU TONIGHT TO ADD SOME
EGRESS WINDOWS TO THE BASEMENT
AGAIN THIS IS LOCATED THE EAST
WILL WILLIAM HISTORIC DISTRICT
THE PICTURE YOU SEE WELL IF YOU
CAN SEE UP ON THE SCREEN IT IS
THE OBVIOUSLY THE REAR OF THE
HOUSE.
THE WINDOWS WOULD GO ON EITHER
SIDE OF THAT REAR DOOR THERE
WILL BE FRAMED BY SOME TIMBER
FRAMERS THAT GO AROUND THERE TO
PROTECT THE EGRESS WINDOWS AND
REALLY AGAIN JUST KIND OF A
DIFFERENT VIEW OF THE REAR
OF THE HOUSE REMODELING GOING
ON CURRENTLY WITHIN THE INSIDE
THE ADDITIONS AGAIN IN THE
BASEMENT TO PROVIDE EGRESS FOR
BATHROOM SORRY BEDROOMS THAT
WOULD BE PLANNED FOR THAT
BASEMENT AND AGAIN THE LEFT OR
SORRY THE RIGHT PICTURE UP ON
THE SCREEN YOU CAN SEE A LITTLE
BIT MORE DETAIL IF YOU COULD
WHERE THE AREA, THE WINDOWS,
THE EGRESS WHEN THEY WERE GO
KIND OF DIRECTLY BELOW THAT
WINDOW THAT YOU SEE THE SMALLER
WINDOW ABOVE IT AND AGAIN JUST
SOME BASIC SCHEMATICS OF THIS
SIMPLE EGRESS WINDOW LEADING
HEALTH AND SAFETY ISSUE FOR THE
BASEMENT BEDROOMS.
&gt;&gt; OBVIOUSLY REQUIRED SEE AREA
WELL DETAIL ON THE SIDE THE
SECRETARY OF INTERIOR STANDARDS
AGAIN READ PREVIOUSLY FOR THE
OTHER ONES WHICH ARE ITEM TWO
IN STANDARD NINE AND STANDARD
TEN THE SAME AS THE PREVIOUS
BUILDING SITE RECOMMENDED WOULD
BE DESIGNING A NEW EXTERIOR
ADDITIONS TO THE HISTORIC
BUILDINGS OR ADJACENT NEW
CONSTRUCTION WHICH IS
COMPATIBLE WITH THE HISTORIC
CHARACTER OF THE SITE AND WHICH
PRESERVES THE HISTORIC
RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN A BUILDING
OR BUILDINGS, LANDSCAPE
FEATURES AND OPEN SPACE
RETAINING THE HISTORIC
RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN BUILDINGS,
LANDSCAPE FEATURES AN OPEN
SPACE AS WELL AS IDENTIFYING,
RETAINING AND PRESERVING
BUILDINGS AND THEIR FEATURES AS
WELL AS THE FEATURES OF THE
SITE THAT ARE IMPORTANT TO
FINDING ITS OVERALL HISTORIC
CHARACTER BUILDING SITE NOT
RECOMMENDED AND USING NEW
CONSTRUCTION INTO THE BUILDING
SITE WHICH IS VISUALLY
INCOMPATIBLE IN TERMS OF SIZE
SCALE DESIGN MATERIALS, COLOR
TEXTURE OR DESTROYS HISTORIC
RELATIONSHIPS ON THE SITE
REMOVING OR RADICALLY CHANGING
BUILDINGS AND THEIR FEATURES OR
SITE FEATURES WHICH ARE
IMPORTANT IN DEFINING THE
OVERALL HISTORIC CHARACTER
OF THE BUILDING SITE SO THAT AS
A RESULT THE CHARACTER IS
DIMINISHED DISTRICT OR
NEIGHBORHOOD SETTING WITHIN THE
SECRETARY OF INTERIOR
GUIDELINES NOT RECOMMENDED
INTRODUCING NEW CONSTRUCTION IN
THE HISTORIC DISTRICTS THAT IS
VISUALLY INCOMPATIBLE OR THAT
DESTROYS HISTORIC RELATIONSHIPS
WITHIN THAT SETTING.
&gt;&gt; AGAIN REGARDING HEALTH AND
SAFETY RECOMMENDED IDENTIFYING
THE HISTORIC BUILDINGS
CHARACTER DEFINING SPACES,
FEATURES AND FINISHES SO THAT
CODE REQUIRED WILL NOT RESULT
IN THEIR DAMAGE OR LOSS
COMPLYING WITH HEALTH AND
SAFETY CODES INCLUDING SEISMIC
CODE REQUIREMENTS IN SUCH A
MANNER THAT CHARACTER DEFINING
SPACES, FEATURES AND FINISHES
ARE PRESERVED NOT RECOMMENDED
ALTERING, DAMAGING OR
DESTROYING CHARACTER DEFINING
SPACES, FEATURES AND FINISHES
WHILE MAKING MODIFICATIONS TO A
BUILDING OR SITE TO COMPLY WITH
SAFETY CODES AND THAT WOULD
CONCLUDE THE PRESENTATION ON
THIS ITEM.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU MR. VOLSKY.
COMMISSIONER ROSS, DID YOU WANT
TO GIVE THE.
THANK YOU.
SO THIS ONE.
YEAH.
ONCE AGAIN VERY, VERY, VERY
MUCH STRAIGHTFORWARD PROPOSAL
THE LIGHT BULBS WILL GO AT THE
REAR ELEVATION SO THE WORK WILL
NOT BE VISIBLE FROM THE PUBLIC
RIGHT OF WAY.
THE FOUNDATION IS JUST A
STANDARD CONCRETE BLOCK
FOUNDATION SO THE ADDITION
OF THE WINDOWS WON&apos;T I MEAN
WE&apos;RE NOT LOOKING AT ANY SORT
OF DISTINCTIVE CHARACTER LIKE
STONE OR ANYTHING LIKE THAT.
&gt;&gt; YEAH, I MEAN IT&apos;S PRETTY
STRAIGHTFORWARD AND APPROPRIATE
.
&gt;&gt; SO I SUPPORT THE PROJECT.
I AGREE WITH COMMISSIONER ROSS
AND THE FOUNDATION IN THE REAR
WAS ALMOST NOT VISIBLE DECIDING
ALMOST ALL THE WAY UP TO THE
GRADE AND AT GRADE IN SOME
CASES.
&gt;&gt; SO I DON&apos;T THINK SHE STATED
THERE&apos;S NO STONE FOUNDATION OR
ANYTHING THAT WOULD SEEMINGLY
HARMED BY THIS.
&gt;&gt; SO I THINK IT&apos;S
STRAIGHTFORWARD MEETS THE
GUIDELINES.
&gt;&gt; UM, WOULD THE APPLICANT THEN
PLEASE COME FORWARD?
&gt;&gt; I KNOW THE APPLICANT IS
ONLINE.
OH, HE JUST RAISED HIS HAND.
YES.
SO SO THE APPLICANT IS
ATTENDING VIRTUALLY SO
HOPEFULLY MY TECHNOLOGY WORKS.
MR. ROB FOWLER, YOU SHOULD BE
ABLE TO SPEAK NOW ON MUTE THERE
ROB USUALLY YOU SEE THEM ON THE
RIGHT HERE HE LOOKS LIKE HE&apos;S
TALKING BUT NO, YOU&apos;RE UNROOTED
.
&gt;&gt; HE WAS ON THE BUT I CAN TELL
SORRY ROB.
I CAN TELL THAT YOU ARE TALKING
BUT FOR SOME REASON YOUR AUDIO
IS NOT COMING THROUGH BUT THE
MICROPHONE IS MOVING.
SO I KNOW YOU ARE UNMUTED
PROMOTED TO A PANEL.
&gt;&gt; SEE IF THAT WORKS.
YEAH, IT&apos;S VERY TOUCHY.
SO SORRY ABOUT THIS.
WE&apos;RE GOING TO TRY
ROB.
WE&apos;RE GOING TO TRY AND PROMOTE
YOU AS A PANELIST AND LET&apos;S SEE
IF THAT YEAH.
&gt;&gt; SO YOU SHOULD BE IN THERE
ROB, ARE YOU ABLE TO AND ROB IS
TALKING BUT THE AUDIO IS NOT
COMING THROUGH.
I SEE YOU TALKING, ROB BECAUSE
MY MICROPHONE IS MOVING.
&gt;&gt; UM SO WE HAVE HIM THERE BUT
FOR SOME REASON HE LIKE IT.
&gt;&gt; WE HEAR HIM SO HE CAN&apos;T HEAR
YOU.
ROB, I KNOW YOU&apos;RE UNMUTED IT&apos;S
NOT YOU.
IT&apos;S ME.
&gt;&gt; ME GO BACK TO THAT ONE.
SORRY HOW DID I DO THAT, HUH?
AND DO YOU YOURSELF SO THAT YOU
WELL LET&apos;S LET&apos;S TRY THAT I
THINK I WILL GIVE FEEDBACK BUT
YOU STILL HOVER THE
PARTICIPANTS
OK NOW ROB CAN YOU
TRY TO TALK TO BARELY OH THE
AUDIO I HEAR YOU VAGUELY BUT
YOU&apos;RE VERY QUIET YOU TURN UP
THE VOLUME WORTZEL VOLUME SO
IT&apos;S WE&apos;VE WE HEAR YOU BUT
SOMEHOW WE HEAR YOU VERY
LIGHTLY SO ALL THESE ISSUES
THAT NEVER HAD PREVIOUSLY BUT
NOW UM I THINK I HEARD YOU SAY
YOU WANT ME TO THAT WAS YOU OK
NOW I GOT IT YOUR MICROPHONE
HERE WE GOT YOU OK HERE OK OK I
APOLOGIZE FOR THAT OK NOW
GREAT.
HELLO.
IF YOU COULD JUST STATE YOUR
NAME AND ADDRESS FOR THE RECORD
AND IF YOU HAVE ANYTHING YOU&apos;D
LIKE TO ADD SOME 336 CRICKED.
THANK YOU.
DO YOU HAVE ANYTHING YOU&apos;D LIKE
TO ADD TO THE STAFF REPORT OR
REVIEW COMMITTEE REPORT?
WELL I THINK WE&apos;RE BEING
VIRTUALLY INVISIBLE FROM ALMOST
ALL ASPECTS OF THE LIFE AND
WE&apos;RE WE&apos;RE ALLOWED SIX
BEDROOMS PER UNIT AND FIRST
MORNING ALMOST FOUR AND I HAVE
THE CBA THE VILLAGE TO PROMOTE
DENSITY AND THIS IS PRIMARILY A
STUDENT HOUSING AREA.
SO WE&apos;D JUST LIKE TO USE OUR
HOUSE TO THIS FULL ADVANTAGE
AND POSSIBLY TO BEDROOMS IN THE
BASEMENT.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU TO ANY
COMMISSIONERS HAVE ANY
QUESTIONS FOR THE APPLICANT.
ALL RIGHT.
I WILL NOW OPEN THE PUBLIC
HEARING PORTION FOR THIS ITEM
AT THREE THREE SIX S DIVISION.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
PERSONS TO SPEAK FOR UP TO
THREE MINUTES ABOUT THE THIS
APPLICATION.
IS THERE ANY CALLERS INDICATING
TO THE PUBLIC COMMENT NO MORE
TECHNICAL ISSUES.
&gt;&gt; WE HAVE NO PROBLEMS WITH
THEIR HANDS DOWN LIKE THIS.
THEY CLOSED THE PUBLIC HEARING
PORTION, SIR COMMISSIONER THAT
WON&apos;T LIKE TO MAKE THE MOTION.
COMMISSIONER FORTNER, I MOVE
THE COMMISSION ISSUE A
CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS
FOR THE APPLICATION AT THREE
THREE SIX S DIVISION STREET, A
CONTRIBUTING PROPERTY IN THE
OLD FOURTH WARD HISTORIC
DISTRICT TO CONSTRUCT TWO
TIMBER EGRESS WINDOW WELLS WITH
CLAD WOOD WINDOWS ON THE REAR
ELEVATION AS PROPOSED.
THE WORK IS COMPATIBLE AND
EXTERIOR DESIGN ARRANGEMENT
MATERIALS AND RELATIONSHIP TO
THE HOUSE IN THE SURROUNDING
AREA AND MEETS THE SECRETARY
OF THE INTERIOR STANDARDS FOR
REHABILITATION AND GUIDELINES
FOR REHABILITATING HISTORIC
BUILDINGS IN PARTICULAR
STANDARDS TO NINE AND TEN AND
THE GUIDELINES FOR BUILDING
SITE WINDOWS AND HEALTH AND
SAFETY AS WELL AS THE ANN ARBOR
HISTORIC DISTRICT DESIGN
GUIDELINES MOVED BY
COMMISSIONER FORTNER SECONDED
BY COMMISSIONER K.A. THERE ANY
DISCUSSION ON THE MOTION?
&gt;&gt; NO RIGHT.
&gt;&gt; READY FOR A VOTE ALL
OF THOSE IN FAVOR PLEASE SAY
YES.
&gt;&gt; YES ALL THOSE OPPOSED PLEASE
SAY NO.
&gt;&gt; THE MOTION CARRIES YOUR
APPLICATION HAS BEEN APPROVED.
PLEASE NOTE THAT MUST THANK
YOU.
JUST KNOW THAT YOU MUST APPLY
FOR ANY PERMITS BEFORE
BEGINNING WORK.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU MR FOWLER.
CHECK BACK RIGHT NOW ONTO ITEM
F FOR TO EIGHTEEN NORTH
DIVISION.
&gt;&gt; OK THANK YOU AGAIN SUBJECT
PROPERTIES BEFORE YOU TONIGHT
REQUESTING SOME CHANGES TO
WINDOWS LOCATION WINDOW
LOCATIONS.
THIS IS LOCATED IN THE OLD
FOURTH WARD HISTORIC DISTRICT
AND SLIDE SHOW.
OK, SO AGAIN NOT TOO MUCH
REALLY TO SHOW AND DESCRIBE ON
THIS PROPOSAL OTHER THAN WHAT
YOU&apos;RE LOOKING AT HERE IS
OBVIOUSLY THE SIDE OF THE HOUSE
WHERE THE EXISTING WINDOW ON
THE BOTTOM OF THE FIRST FLOOR
LEFT WOULD BE SHIFTED OVER AND
THEN WE&apos;VE GOT IDEALLY ALSO
SOME VIEWS FROM LOOKING UP A
LITTLE BIT.
YOU CAN SEE SOME CHANGES IN THE
BRICK INDICATING WHERE SOME
PREVIOUS WINDOWS WERE LOCATED
ON THAT PROPOSAL IN SOME EVENTS
WOULD BE RELOCATED AS WELL.
&gt;&gt; AGAIN, HERE&apos;S YOU CAN SEE
THE BEFORE OBVIOUSLY WHAT THE
EXISTING PHOTOS ON THE IT WOULD
BE ON THE RIGHT ACTUALLY ON THE
PHOTOS ON THE SCREEN AND THEN
OBVIOUSLY SHIFTING WITH THE
PHOTO ON THE LEFT IS IS THE NEW
LOCATION OF THAT THAT WINDOW.
&gt;&gt; SO AGAIN KIND SHOWING A
SCHEMATIC SIDE PLAN BUT SO YOU
CAN SEE IN RELATION TO WHERE IT
LOOKS FROM CATHERINE STREET OR
SOUTH DIVISION, IT&apos;S ON THE ON
THE SOUTH SIDE SO IT&apos;S NOT
VISIBLE FROM REALLY EITHER ONE
OF THOSE PUBLIC STREETS AND
AGAIN KIND OF AN INTERIOR VIEW
SO YOU CAN SEE WHAT THEY&apos;RE
PROPOSING AND WHY WHY THEY FEEL
THAT THE WINDOW DOES NEED TO BE
MOVED.
&gt;&gt; SECRETARY OF INTERIOR
STANDARDS ITEM ONE ITEM TO AN
ITEM NINE ARE THE ONES AND ITEM
TEN THAT WOULD APPLY WINDOWS
AGAIN SOME OF THE SECTARIAN
GUIDELINES WHAT ARE NOT
RECOMMENDED FOR WINDOWS IS
INTRODUCING NEW DESIGN THAT IS
INCOMPATIBLE WITH THE HISTORIC
CHARACTER OF THE BUILDING
CHANGING THE NUMBER, LOCATION,
SIZE OR GLAZING PATTERN
OF WINDOWS THROUGH CUTTING NEW
OPENINGS, BLOCKING WINDOWS AND
INSTALLING REPLACEMENT SASH
WHICH DOES NOT FIT THE HISTORIC
WINDOW OPENING, REMOVING OR
RADICALLY CHANGING WINDOWS
WHICH ARE IMPORTANT IN DEFINING
THE HISTORIC CHARACTER OF THE
BUILDING SO THAT AS A RESULT
THE CHARACTER IS DIMINISHED.
&gt;&gt; THE ANN ARBOR HISTORIC
DISTRICT GUIDELINES I&apos;LL JUST
READ THE WINDOWS THAT THE
APPROPRIATE RETAINING AND
MAINTAINING SORRY RETAINING AND
MAINTAINING WINDOWS IN GOOD
CONDITION.
&gt;&gt; NORMAL MAINTENANCE WILL
INCLUDE CLEANING REPLACEMENT,
LIMITED PAINT REMOVAL RECOPYING
WHERE NECESSARY AND NEW PAINT
TO MAKE WINDOWS FULLY OPERABLE
NOT APPROPRIATE WOULD BE
REMOVING OR RADICALLY CHANGING
A WINDOW THAT IS IMPORTANT AND
DEFINING THE OVERALL HISTORIC
CHARACTER OF THE PROPERTY AND I
BELIEVE THAT WOULD SUMMARIZE UP
THE STAFF PRESENTATION ON THIS
ITEM.
&gt;&gt; YES IT DOES.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU AGAIN COMMISSIONER
STRESSING MYSELF OUT ON THE
REVIEW COMMITTEE.
&gt;&gt; UM THE THE WORK IS PRETTY
MINIMAL.
I THINK THERE WERE SOME INITIAL
RESERVATIONS IN REVIEWING THE
PACKET.
&gt;&gt; HOWEVER, WHEN WE WERE ON
SITE LOOKING FOR IN OUR PACKAGE
THERE&apos;S A PHOTO IF YOU KIND
OF LOOK UP CLOSE IT&apos;S PAGE
THREE IN THE ARCHITECTURAL
DOCUMENTS I THINK PAGE TEN
OF THE PACKET WHERE THE WINDOW
IS PROPOSED TO BE SHIFTED IT
LOOKED LIKE IT&apos;S HARD TO TELL
BUT IT LOOKS LIKE THERE IS SOME
POTENTIAL BRICK WORK PSLY
AND IN THAT AREA THERE&apos;S SOME
SORT THING IN PATCHING WHICH
ISN&apos;T REALLY EVIDENT ON ANY
OTHER PORTION OF THE FACADE.
I THINK, YOU KNOW, THIS THE
HOUSE IS VERY WELL MAINTAINED.
&gt;&gt; IT&apos;S THEY&apos;VE THEY&apos;VE COME TO
THE COMMISSION PREVIOUSLY WITH,
YOU KNOW, MULTIPLE RENOVATIONS
AND ADDITIONS AND I THINK
MODIFICATIONS.
I THINK YOU KNOW, THIS IS THE
WINDOWS ARE SET FOR BACK THAT I
THINK SHIFTING THEM, YOU KNOW,
SLIGHTLY AS PROPOSED IS UM I
THINK IT&apos;S OK IN THIS
SITUATION, ESPECIALLY SINCE
THERE IT APPEARS TO BE THERE&apos;S
SOME ADDITIONAL WORK THAT HAS
BEEN DONE OR SOME MODIFICATIONS
THAT HAVE BEEN CHANGED I THINK
DESPITE THE FACT THAT THE
LINTELS AND THE CILL ARE BEING
MAINTAINED IN THE SIZE IS BEING
MAINTAINED, I BELIEVE IS
IMPORTANT.
UM, SO I THINK OVERALL THAT
THIS IS PRETTY STRAIGHTFORWARD
MAYBE NOT INITIALLY BUT YOU
KNOW, AFTER SOME FURTHER
INVESTIGATION UM COMMISSIONER
ROSS, DO YOU HAVE ANYTHING TO
ADD YET JUST TO SAY THAT I SAID
AND JUST ONCE AGAIN KIND
OF LOOKING AT THE WORDING
OF THE THE STAFF FINDING AROUND
THE GUIDELINES, THE DISCUSSION
OR THE POINT AROUND MOVING
WINDOWS SORRY SHOULDN&apos;T DIMMIT
OR SHOULDN&apos;T OR WE&apos;RE LOOKING
AT NOT DIMINISHED THE HISTORIC
CHARACTER OF THE HOUSE?
UM SO YEAH I JUST AGREE WITH
COMMISSIONER EVERSON THAT
THAT&apos;S LIKE KIND OF MOVING
OF THE WINDOW IS NOT GOING TO
DIMINISH LITERALLY THE
CHARACTER OF THIS HOME.
UM, THE ELEVATION IT&apos;S HARD TO
SEE FROM THE RIGHT OF WAY ONCE
AGAIN LIKE ONCE WE GOT ACTUALLY
TO THE SITE AND WE WERE LOOKING
AT THAT WALL AS COMMISSIONER
REPRESENTATIVES&apos; YOU COULD SEE
THAT THERE HAD BEEN SOME SORT
OF REWORKING OF OF OPENINGS
AND
SUCH ON THAT ELEVATION.
SO I MEAN IT&apos;S IT&apos;S HARD FOR ME
TO SAY THAT THAT SLIGHT LITTLE
MOVE IS GOING TO LITERALLY
DIMINISH THE CHARACTER OF THIS
THIS REALLY WELL MAINTAINED
BEAUTIFUL.
IT SEEMED LIKE A PRETTY
STRAIGHTFORWARD PROJECT.
&gt;&gt; RIGHT.
UH, WITH THE APPLICANT PLEASE
COME FORWARD AND STATE YOUR
NAME AND ADDRESS FOR THE RECORD
AND YOU HAVE UP TO FIVE MINUTES
IF YOU&apos;D LIKE TO ADD ANYTHING
TO THE REPORT OR OK MARK
ASSOCIATES ARCHITECTS HERE
REPRESENTING THE OWNER TONIGHT
AND I THINK THAT MR KAWALSKY
AND THE REVIEW COMMITTEE DID A
GOOD LOOKING AT THIS.
UH, IF YOU WERE TO LOOK AT PAGE
NUMBER THREE ARCHITECTURALLY I
KNOW BOTH OF YOU ARE COMMENTING
ABOUT THE REWORKING OF THE
FACADE THIS FACADE AS IS
LITERALLY GONE UNDER MANY, MANY
DIFFERENT KIND
OF TRANSFORMATIONS,
PARTICULARLY THE LAST FIFTEEN
OR TWENTY YEARS AND THAT WINDOW
IN THE CENTER RIGHT BELOW THE
LITTLE TRIANGULAR WINDOW IS A
TOTALLY NEW WINDOW THAT WAS
ADDED THE WINDOW ABOVE THE OR
THE MASONRY DIRECTLY ABOVE THE
WINDOW THAT HAS TO BE MOVED
USED TO BE THE WINDOW AND THEN
IT WAS CUT DOWN MADE INTO A
DOOR.
A FIRE ESCAPE IS ADDED, FIRE
ESCAPE WAS REMOVED AND THE
WINDOW BRICKED BACK UP AGAIN
AND THEN THERE WERE SOME OTHER
CHANGES.
THERE WAS A PORTICO AND ANOTHER
ENTRANCE TO THAT HOUSE.
SO IT&apos;S REALLY BEEN MOVING
AROUND QUITE A BIT.
THESE WINDOWS OPEN.
SO ARE THERE ANY OTHER
QUESTIONS TO ANSWER THEM
COMMISSIONERS?
&gt;&gt; ANY OTHER QUESTIONS?
UH, MAYBE I MISSED IN THE FACT
BUT IN THE DESCRIPTION OF THE
EVOLUTION OF THAT FACADE IS THE
WINDOW OPENING IN QUESTION
ORIGINAL OR HAS THAT WAS THAT A
SUBSEQUENT THAT THAT IS A
WINDOW OPEN THE OPENING IS THE
ORIGINAL
QUESTIONS OH NO OPEN
THE PUBLIC HEARING FOR THIS
ITEM AT TWO EIGHTEEN NORTH
DIVISION DO WE HAVE ANY
CODE AND WE HAVE NOBODY WITH
THEIR HAND RAISED CLOSE THE
PUBLIC HEARING PORTION IS THERE
A COMMISSIONER THAT WOULD LIKE
TO MAKE A MOTION?
COMMISSIONER ROCKLIN
I MOVE
THAT THE COMMISSION APPROVED
THE APPLICATION AT TWO EIGHTEEN
NORTH DIVISION STREET A
CONTRIBUTING PROPERTY IN THE
OLD FOURTH WARD HISTORIC
DISTRICT TO MOVE A FIRST FLOOR
WINDOW OPENING ON THE SOUTH
ELEVATION THIRTY EIGHT INCHES
TO THE WEST INFILL THE ORIGINAL
OPENING AND INSTALL A NEW WOOD
WINDOW A SECOND NEW WOOD WINDOW
WOULD REPLACE AN EXISTING
WINDOW NEXT TO THE MOVE ONE TO
THE MOVED ONE TO THE EAST AS
PROPOSED THE WORK IS COMPATIBLE
AN EXTERIOR DESIGN ARRANGEMENT
TEXTURE MATERIAL IN
RELATIONSHIP TO THE REST OF THE
BUILDING AND THE SURROUNDING
AREA AND MEETS THE SECRETARY
OF THE INTERIOR STANDARDS FOR
REHABILITATION AND GUIDELINES
FOR REHABILITATING HISTORIC
BUILDINGS AND PARTICULAR
STANDARDS ONE TO NINE AND TEN
AND THE GUIDELINES FOR BUILDING
SITE AND ENTRANCES AND PORCHES
AND THE ANN ARBOR HISTORIC
DISTRICT DESIGN GUIDELINES FOR
RESIDENTIAL LANDSCAPE FEATURES
SUPPORT MOVE BY COMMISSIONER
RACHLIN SECONDED THE
COMMISSIONER ROSS THERE A
DISCUSSION ON THE MOTION
COMMISSIONER RAKAN ONE POINT
I&apos;D LIKE TO MAKE IS THAT IF
THAT SO WE&apos;RE TALKING ABOUT THE
THE IT&apos;S AN ORIGINAL WINDOW
OPENING AND ABOVE IT WAS
ANOTHER ORIGINAL OPENING THAT
WAS DIRECTLY CENTERED ON IT AND
THE SYMMETRY USED TO BE THERE
AND IF THAT OPENING ON THE
SECOND FLOOR STILL EXISTED THAT
WOULD TOTALLY CHANGE MY
THINKING ABOUT THIS PROJECT.
I THINK EVERYONE&apos;S OBVIOUSLY SO
THAT IS NOT THERE ANYMORE AND
SO BECAUSE IT&apos;S NOT THERE
REALLY I THINK OPENS THE
OPPORTUNITY TO MOVE THAT
OPENING WHERE IT I GUESS NEEDS
TO BE ACCORDING TO WHAT THE
OWNER HAS HAS GOING ON PROGRAM
WISE INSIDE THE HOUSE IF THAT
BUILDING IF THAT WINDOW IS
THERE ON THE SECOND FLOOR, IT
JUST WOULDN&apos;T MAKE SENSE TO TO
RUIN THE CEMETERY.
I DO WONDER SO SO I THINK THERE
IS AN ALLOWANCE THERE TO MOVE
THAT WINDOW AND LIKE PEOPLE
WERE SAYING LIKE MOVING IT
SLIGHTLY I DON&apos;T FEEL WILL WILL
IMPACT THE CHARACTER OF THE
HOUSE.
THERE&apos;S JUST THE QUESTION OF DO
YOU DO YOU RETAIN SOME NOTION
OF WHERE THAT ORIGINAL OPENING
IS CURRENTLY THROUGH SOME SORT
OF RECESSED INFILL LIKE WE&apos;VE
SEEN ON OTHER PROJECTS WHICH I
THINK DOES MAKE SENSE, ALTHOUGH
IT&apos;S ODD THAT IT&apos;S NOT ON THE
SECOND FLOOR, IT&apos;S NOT LIKE
IT&apos;S GOING TO MATCH SOME OTHER
RECESSED GHOSTED OPENING SO I
COULD KIND OF SEE EITHER WAY
AND YEAH, THAT&apos;S MY COMMENT.
NO, I THINK THAT YEAH, I WAS
THINKING SOMETHING SIMILAR EVEN
IF IT&apos;S NOT RACIST EVEN IN THE
BRICKWORK IF IT&apos;S IF IT&apos;S FLUSH
THERE COULD STILL BE STRIP
JOINTS THAT INDICATE WHERE THAT
OPENING WAS OR EXISTED.
UM, RIGHT.
I GUESS WE&apos;D HAVE TO CHECK WITH
THE APPLICANT IF THAT&apos;S
SOMETHING THAT THEY WOULD BE
INTERESTED IN DOING.
I DON&apos;T KNOW WHETHER OTHER
COMMISSIONERS THAT HAVE ANY
COMMENTS I GUESS BEFORE WE MOVE
ON I CAN I CAN ASK THE AFGHAN A
QUESTION I SUPPOSE RELATED THAT
I MEAN CAN YOU DESCRIBE THE
INFIELD THAT YOU&apos;RE PROPOSING
FOR THAT?
&gt;&gt; WELL, YOU KNOW BUT YOU THE
ISSUE YOU RAISED THAT WAS ONE
OF MY ORIGINAL THOUGHTS TO DO
THAT THAT&apos;S WHAT WE&apos;D LIKE TO
DO IS TRADE BUILDINGS.
BUT BUT BECAUSE THE WINDOWS
ACTUALLY OVERLAP, IT WOULD
CREATE A VERY SORT
OF DISJUNCTIVE KIND OF , YOU
KNOW, THING TO HAVE WINDOWS NOT
QUITE DISTINCTLY THERE YOU SO I
DID DISMISS THAT IDEA AND
THAT&apos;S BASICALLY WHAT ABOUT
INSTEAD OF REASSESSING IT YOU
CAN HAVE I GUESS THE BRICKS
INSTEAD OF FEATHERING THEM AND
THEY COULD BE BOARDED IN SUCH A
WAY THAT YOU COULD READ THE
OUTLINE IT WOULDN&apos;T BE
REASSESSED.
&gt;&gt; YOU KNOW, THE OUTLINE WOULD
BE THERE THAT COULD BE DONE.
I THINK THAT&apos;S A GOOD POINT
BECAUSE IN ANOTHER 50 YEARS
COMMISSIONERS IN ANOTHER 50
YEARS ARE LOOKING AT THIS
HOUSE.
IT WOULD BE GREAT FOR THEM AND
SAY OH YEAH, I CAN SEE THAT X,
Y, Z HAPPEN HERE SIMILAR TO OUR
EXPERIENCE.
&gt;&gt; WE MIGHT LOOK AT THAT OR A
SLIGHT REASSESS AND I KNOW THE
BASE THAT WOULD BE HAPPY WITH
THAT APPROACH PROBABLY EASIER.
RIGHT, RIGHT.
I I UNDERSTAND I CAN SEE THE
LOGIC IN THE FIRST PART
OF ONE&apos;S COMMENTS BUT I FEEL
LIKE THAT COULD BE A SLIPPERY
AND KIND OF A RIPPLE EFFECT
OF THINGS OF JUST THINKING OH
IT&apos;S NOT THERE OR SOMETHING
THAT&apos;S CHANGED SO I CAN, YOU
KNOW, PLAY A SEPARATE SET
OF RULES ON THOSE ARE DIFFERENT
RULES I I KEEP GOING BACK AND
FORTH ON THE APPLICATION SO UM
YEAH I THINK THE LOOKING AT THE
GUIDELINES THE UM OH SORRY I
HAD TO AND I LOST THEM UM I
THINK THE ONE THAT COMMISSIONER
ROSS POINTED IS IMPORTANT THAT
IT YOU KNOW REMOVING A
RADICALLY CHANGING WINDOWS
WHICH ARE IMPORTANT TO FIND IN
HISTORIC CHARACTER UM OF THE
BUILDING SO THAT THE HISTORIC
CHARACTER IS DIMINISHED.
I DON&apos;T THINK THE HISTORIC
CHARACTER WOULD BE DIMINISHED
BY MOVING THIS ONE.
I THINK I THINK WE&apos;VE STATED
THAT, UM, CHANGING THE NUMBER
LOCATION, SIZE OR GLAZING
PATTERN THROUGH NEW OPENINGS,
BLOCKING IN WINDOWS AND
INSTALLING REPLACEMENT SASHES
WHICH DOES NOT FIT THE HISTORIC
WINDOW OPENING.
THAT&apos;S ANOTHER NOT RECOMMENDED
I I THINK THAT I THINK AS
COMMISSIONER RACHLIN STATED, IF
THE ORIGINAL WONDER WAS THERE
THERE&apos;S SOME SYMMETRY TO THE
FACADE OF THE ORIGINAL WINDOW
UP ABOVE WAS STILL THERE.
&gt;&gt; THE ORIGINAL OPENING I THINK
WOULD BE A DIFFERENT
APPLICATION AND THEN ALSO
HEARING THAT THE OTHER WINDOW
THAT&apos;S ON IN THE CENTER OF THE
HOME ON THE SECOND FLOOR WAS
ADDED THAT TO ME WAS THE FACT
THAT THIS WINDOW WAS BEING
MOVED OVER KIND OF THREW OFF
THAT SYMMETRY A LITTLE BIT
HEARING THAT THAT WAS A
COMPLETELY NEW ADDITION UM I
THINK ALSO CHANGES MY OPINION
ON WHETHER OR NOT THERE IS A
SYMMETRY.
HOW IMPORTANT IS THE SYMMETRY
ON THIS FACADE?
I DON&apos;T KNOW THAT THIS
PARTICULAR YOU KNOW, THE TWO
MAIN ELEVATIONS ARE THE THE
NORTH AND THE EAST ELEVATION
AND WHILE THIS ONE IS VISIBLE,
I THINK IT&apos;S FURTHER BACK AND
THE FACT THAT THE WINDOWS ARE
MAINTAINING THE SAME SIZE AND
SCALE I THINK AND THE FEATURES
ARE IMPORTANT AND I&apos;M NOT SURE
THAT THE WINDOW LOCATION IS AS
CRITICAL CURRENTLY ANYMORE TO
THE TO THE PROPERTY.
I THINK THERE&apos;S OTHER FEATURES
THAT REALLY DEFINE THE
CHARACTER OF THE HOME
.
YOU KNOW, ARE THERE ANY OTHER
COMMENTS OR THOUGHTS OR AND
THEN WE&apos;RE READY FOR A VOTE
OF THOSE IN FAVOR OF THE
MOTION.
PLEASE SAY YES.
&gt;&gt; YES, YES.
ALL THOSE OPPOSED PLEASE SAY NO
NO.
&gt;&gt; ALL RIGHT.
THE MOTION CARRIES YOUR
APPLICATION HAS BEEN APPROVED.
PLEASE NOTE THAT YOU MUST APPLY
FOR ANY REQUIRED PERMITS FROM
THE CITY BEFORE BEGINNING YOUR
PROJECT.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH RIGHT ON TO
ITEM G NEW BUSINESS BELIEVE
THERE IS NO NEW BUSINESS ON THE
AGENDA ON THE AGENDA UM
APPROVAL OF MINUTES WE DID NOT
RECEIVE THE JULY MEETING
MINUTES SO WE CAN MOVE ON TO
ITEM I REPORTS FROM
COMMISSIONERS.
IS THERE ANYTHING THE
COMMISSIONER WOULD LIKE TO
SHARE ON TO ITEM J ASSIGNMENTS
UH FOR THE REVIEW COMMITTEE FOR
TUESDAY SEPTEMBER 6TH AT FIVE
PM FOR THE THURSDAY SEPTEMBER
18TH BEGIN THEIR MEETING.
I WILL BE OUT OF TOWN FOR THAT
MEETING.
SO MR ROCKLIN OR COMMISSIONER
CAN COMMISSIONER ROSS YOU&apos;RE
AVAILABLE.
OH SO IS IT ON IS ON MONDAY OR.
&gt;&gt; OH IT ACTUALLY IT SAYS
TUESDAY IS THE ONE THAT IS LATE
MONDAY IS LABOR DAY GOOD.
&gt;&gt; CAN BE WELL AND A MATTER YOU
SAY YEAH YOU&apos;RE LATE OK UM I
CAN&apos;T DO IT OK ALL RIGHT YEAH I
THINK I CAN OK FOR DINNER.
YEAH AND DID WE HAVE ANOTHER
MEMBER AS WELL.
OUR MATT YOU CAN YOU CAN PUT ME
DOWN OK THANK OK THANK YOU.
&gt;&gt; SO YOU HAVE TWO MEMBERS WERE
GOOD OK THANK YOU BOTH AND
THAT&apos;S FINE THANK YOU.
&gt;&gt; YES FIVE ON TUESDAY
SEPTEMBER SIX AND YOU SAY I
READ IT AND IT DIDN&apos;T FAZE ME
UNTIL ALL RIGHT ON TO ITEM K
REPORTS FROM STAFF I DON&apos;T
BELIEVE THERE WERE ANY STAFF
ACTIVITIES LISTED.
&gt;&gt; THERE ARE NO LINKS TO STAFF
ACTIVITIES OTHER THAN THE
REPORT FROM STAFF IS TO THANK
YOU ALL PUBLICLY AND PEOPLE
LISTENING FOR YOUR PATIENCE
TONIGHT.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
IT SEEMED WE HAD REHEARSED THIS
SO I APOLOGIZE BUT THANK YOU
ALL FOR YOUR PATIENCE.
&gt;&gt; I THINK EVERYTHING ELSE WENT
SMOOTHLY AFTER THAT.
&gt;&gt; WELL AND THANK YOU FOR
FILLING IN.
&gt;&gt; YES.
I TRIED TO THANK YOU FOR YOUR
PATIENCE.
&gt;&gt; WE HAVE ALMOST HAD I DON&apos;T
THINK WE&apos;VE GONE WITHOUT HAVING
SOME SORT OF HICCUP IF MINOR
BUT SOMETHING RIGHT ONTO ITEM L
CONCERNS OF COMMISSIONERS.
&gt;&gt; IS THERE ANY COMMISSIONER
THAT HAS A CONCERN THEY&apos;D LIKE
TO SHARE WITH THE COMMISSION
AND TO ADAM ERM COMMUNICATIONS
THERE ARE NONE AND ITEM IN
ADJOURNMENT NOW ADJOURN THE
AUGUST 11TH TWENTY TWENTY TWO
IN OUR HISTORIC DISTRICT
COMMISSIONER THANK YOU.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU